# Full-Text Searching
There are a lot of open-source search engines on the market, which has been developed for scalability and integration into a variety of application platform. These include solutions such as ElasticSearch, Apache Lucene, and Apache Solr.

ElasticSearch recently added the ability to search over dense vector fields i.e. vectorization models can be used for document scoring where a document score is given by the distance between a given query vector and the indexed document vector. This indicates that there are definitely commercial products that use these semantic search features in their production applications. Apache Lucene and Solr provide inbuilt methods for some vector space query ranking, as well as standard measures such as BM25.
I have experimented with setting up all of these aforementioned tools, and they work very well for the exact applications they are designed for. For instance, elastic search provides great performance in building an index, as well as some of the best full-text search performance. Unfortunately, this means that these applications have been built in very opinionated structures, therefore if you try to experiment with any of the internal approaches with your search engine, it becomes the equivalent of a living nightmare.

## SQLite and FTS5 Extension
SQLite is one of the simplest and underrated databases out there. It works perfectly with Pythonic programs and allows you to tinker as much as you require with its internals. While it provides around the same level of performance as any standard database engine, it doesn’t have a server - therefore making it unable to handle concurrent write requests.
Since the number of writes ( building the index ) for our use case is very few when compared to the number of reads, prototyping the almost unlimited concurrent reads is just as good for us. ( Please note that everything the SQLite database has been used for can be done easily with other scalable database engines such as MySQL, PostgreSQL etc. Scaling up what I’ve built is as simple as changing a couple of lines - towards migrating towards a database that allows for things like horizontal scaling. )
Writing an efficient full-text indexer would be a few month's effort, just by itself, therefore, it was considered for the purposes of this project to not try to reinvent the wheel but use the FTS5 extension. Usually ranking documents requires complex techniques such as Google’s PageRank which does random walks through webpages, however, we’ve decided ro rank on the basis of BM25 scores - to give how well a document matches our full text query.
